---
title: "Mangul Lab member Sei Chang reflects on summer undergraduate research experience"
author: Lana Martin
<!-- member-page:  -->
tags:
  - Education
---

## Mangul Lab member Sei Chang reflects on summer undergraduate research experience

Working in a research lab can be an invaluable experience for undergrads — and immersive summer research experiences offer an ideal structure for students to acquire new skills and learn first-hand what it’s actually like to be a full-time researcher.

Check out Mangul Lab undergraduate researcher Sei Chang’s recent blog post, which provides an anecdotal overview of the Bruins-in-Genomics (B.I.G) Summer Research Program:

My Bioinformatics Journey: B.I.G Summer Institute 2019

Sei is a senior majoring in Computer Science and Engineering at UCLA: [https://seichang00.github.io/](https://seichang00.github.io/).

B.I.G. Summer is hosted by the UCLA Institute for Quantitative and Computational Biosciences. While a postdoctoral scholar at UCLA, Serghei mentored 16 undergraduate and high school B.I.G. Summer scholars from 2016 to 2019. Undergraduate students who are interested in the B.I.G Summer program at UCLA may apply now for the 2020 program! 

In addition, the National Science Foundation (NSF) maintains a list of active Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) programs.

Read more about Serghei’s approach to including undergraduate students in research projects and training the next generation of bioinformatics researchers:

1. Mangul, Serghei
Interpreting and integrating big data in the life sciences Journal Article
Emerging Topics in Life Sciences, 3 (4), pp. 335-341, 2019.


2. Mangul, Serghei; Martin, Lana S; Langmead, Ben; Sanchez-Galan, Javier E; Toma, Ian V; Hormozdiari, Fereydoun; Pevzner, Pavel; Eskin, Eleazar
How bioinformatics and open data can boost basic science in countries and universities with limited resources Journal Article
Nature Biotechnology, 37 (3), pp. 324, 2019.
Abstract | Links | BibTeX | Altmetric

3. Mangul, Serghei; Martin, Lana S; Eskin, Eleazar
Involving undergraduates in genomics research to narrow the education--research gap Journal Article
Nature Biotechnology, 36 (4), pp. 369, 2018.

4. Mangul, Serghei; Martin, Lana S; Hoffmann, Alexander; Pellegrini, Matteo; Eskin, Eleazar
Addressing the digital divide in contemporary biology: lessons from teaching UNIX Journal Article
Trends in Biotechnology, 35 (10), pp. 901–903, 2017.



