---
title: "Now recruiting: 2021 USC SURF Program! (4000$ stipend!)"

author: Dhrithi Deshpande
member-page: deshpande-dhrithi.html

image: images/blog/USC_SOP.jpg

tags:
  - STEM Internship
  - USC
  - Mangul lab
---

## Now recruiting: 2021 USC SURF Program!
 
We are actively accepting applications from current undergraduate students to fill the position of an Undergraduate Research Associate in the Mangul Lab for Summer 2021. Fellows will receive a $4,000 stipend for a virtual full‐time program during summer (full time, 10 weeks minimum; involvement for a longer period may depend upon project and faculty preference)
The Mangul Lab is committed to ensuring an inclusive and supportive environment regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, race, ethnicity, religion, nationality, or socioeconomic background.

### DEADLINE TO APPLY?

Thursday, May 20, 2021 5:00pm Pacific Time
(We will be interviewing candidates on a rolling basis, we encourage you to apply early)
Overview of the Program:
The USC School of Pharmacy’s SURF program is geared towards increasing learning and networking opportunities for undergraduate students committed to pursuing either a professional or academic research career in pharmaceutical and translational sciences. Students will develop confidence and independence in conducting research and communicating scientific concepts under the guidance of faculty and other mentors. In addition to daily engagement with the lab, students will attend biweekly entrepreneurship/professional development seminars and participate in a workshop on the graduate school application process so as to stimulate serious consideration of graduate study. At the end of the summer, students will give an oral presentation of their research to their peers and faculty.

### WHO CAN APPLY?

Undergraduate students between their junior and senior year
Students must be in good academic standing and enrolled for next year’s classes
Must be US citizens or permanent residents enrolled in an accredited U.S. college or university
Applications are strongly encouraged from the following groups to enhance diversity in our training programs:  first-generation college student or a member of a group that is underrepresented in graduate education (African Americans, Latinos, American Indians or Alaska Natives, native Hawaiians, and other Pacific Islanders; individuals with disabilities, defined as those with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities).
Fellows will assume the role of undergraduate student researcher and perform individual research projects, guided by Dr. Mangul, in collaboration with and assistance from our graduate students and postdoctoral scholars. 
WHAT IS INVOLVED IN THE INTERNSHIP?

Research Associates will work full time each week working on their own robustness and reproducibility project, which presents an excellent opportunity to develop competency in various aspects including designing a project, learning to work with Unix and Python scripts, implementing and debugging software packages, and pipelines, analyzing data obtained from statistical tests and data visualization, curating project materials for long-term storage on GitHub, and producing a scholarly scientific report consisting of aims, methods, results and interpretation. Research Associates will each be assigned their own desk for the duration of their internship in our computational lab located in the Center for the Health Professions Building (CHP) 236, on the USC Health Sciences Campus (HSC). Alternatively, if needed, Research Associates will work remotely and all the resources can be accessed in remote settings.

Note: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2021-2022 URAP Fellow hosted by Mangul Lab will perform work remotely.  We are prepared to accommodate a student who works remotely from different time zones. *Subject to change depending on the guidelines issued by USC*

### PROJECT SUMMARY

Mangul Lab designs, develops, and applies novel data-driven, computational approaches that accelerate the diffusion of genomics and biomedical data into translational research and education. Mangul Lab undergraduate and graduate students, postdocs, and PI create novel bioinformatics methods and apply these tools to big data; perform benchmarking studies to assess genomics methods and help researchers select the right tools for a project; and work to increase the installability and archival stability of bioinformatics software.
We will provide the Research Associates with hands-on training, with our main aim being - gaining competency in using computational genomics tools for big data analytic techniques (BDAT) and scientific replicability, and a realistic multidisciplinary research experience at the level of a typical first-year graduate student. 

### SAMPLE PROJECTS

We propose research projects that are well-suited to model for the Research Associates’ how scientific methods, data, and ideas translate in real-time. Each benchmarking study will require the Fellow to select performance metrics relevant to their research questions; document their work as they install, run, and debug each computational tool; generate summary statistics using open-source genomics tools; interpret results in the context of major scientific questions; and present project materials on an open-source data-sharing platform. 

(1) Benchmarking of computational genomics tools designed for read alignment, quantification, and detection of structural variants in genomic data, to assess their robustness and reproducibility. 

(2) Benchmarking of computational methods developed to perform error-correction on next-generation sequencing data. Errors present in genomic data may impact downstream analysis and limit the applicability of sequencing technologies in clinical tools. 

(3) Benchmarking of gene expression deconvolution tools, which are designed to estimate cell type abundance using gene expression data.

(4) Develop robust and scalable methods to assemble V(D)J alleles from next-generation sequencing data and robust species- and strain-specific methods to assemble B and T cell receptor repertoire from next-generation sequencing data.

### REQUIRED ACTIVITIES IN ADDITION TO RESEARCH
 
(1) Participate in the weekly lab meetings in CHP 236 or via teleconferencing means. The Fellow will be responsible for weekly presentations of results and issues encountered, as well as at least one formal oral presentation (with slides) per academic term. <br/>
(2) Write a two-page perspective paper, supported by five scholarly references, discussing the role of scientific reproducibility in research ethics. <br/>
(3) Create a formal poster presentation of project aims, methods, and results, to be presented at an end-of-the-year Mangul Lab social event in CHP 236. Our graduate students and postdoctoral scholars will guide the Fellows in developing and presenting their posters. <br/>
(4) Develop lay-friendly scientific communication materials; a five-minute video summarizing their work for the lab YouTube channel, a one-page, lay-friendly summary for the lab blog, and a promotional tweet of their work for the lab Twitter account. <br/>
Research Associates will be encouraged to, and supported in, preparing a manuscript for submission to a peer-reviewed journal, on successful completion of the project. <br/>
Note: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all lab activities are currently conducted via teleconferencing means. *Subject to change depending on the guidelines issued by USC*

### SELECTION CRITERIA

(1) Computational background; <br/>
(2) Life science background; <br/>
(3) Past academic performance; <br/>
(4) Aptitude for completion of a research project. <br/>

### ABOUT PI MANGUL

Dr. Mangul has over seven years of experience teaching BDAT and computational genomics techniques to researchers of all levels, including undergraduate students. While a postdoctoral scholar at UCLA, Dr. Mangul developed a three-day “Intro to UNIX” workshop that he taught 15 times to over 300 individuals (2013 to 2019). Dr. Mangul has mentored over 30 undergraduates, including 16 students enrolled in the UCLA Bruins-in-Genomics (B.I.G.) Summer Undergraduate Research Program; he supervised six students who won the Best Poster Award. Six of PI Mangul’s former mentees are now Ph.D. students in bioinformatics at UCLA, UC Davis, and George Washington University. At least 20 of his undergraduate mentees are contributing authors on peer-reviewed publications; with three mentees as the first author. During Fall 2019, Mangul Lab at USC hosted one undergraduate intern from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Dr. Mangul is also mentoring two undergraduate students under the USC URAP 2020-21. 


Application: https://forms.gle/Qza8vEwj2pK7Qjdu9



