---
title: "Mangul Lab to present at ASHG 2022"

author: Kerui Peng
member-page: peng-kerui.html

image: images/blog/

tags:
  - ASHG


---
{% include figure.html image="images/blog/ashg2022.png" %}

Looking forward to sharing research findings from Mangul lab with you!
Members of Mangul Lab at the University of Southern California School of Pharmacy will present at the 2022 American Society of Human Genetics Annual Meeting in LA:

### Platform Presentation: 
Yesha Patel et al. Reading between the reads: Getting the most out of sequencing results, Session 48, Oct 27 (Thursday), 1:45 pm at Conv Ctr/West Hall A/West Building

### Poster presentations: 
#### Oct 26 (Wednesday) 3-4:45 PM at Exhibit/Poster Hall, South Building, Level 1:
- Serghei Mangul, et al. Genomic deserts: A global survey of underrepresented populations in genomics research [PB2794]
- Mohammad Vahed, et al. A comprehensive analysis of the reusability of public omics data across 2.8 million research publications [PB3188]
- Sergey Knyazev, et al. A rigorous benchmarking of methods for SARS-CoV-2 lineage detection in wastewater [PB2888]
- Kerui Peng, et al. pyTCR: a comprehensive and scalable platform for TCR-Seq data analysis to facilitate reproducibility and rigor of immunogenomics research [PB3115]
- Qiushi Peng, et al. Global landscape of primary omics data generation and its secondary analysis across 193 countries and territories [PB3214]
- Anushka Yadav, et al. Benchmarking of computational tools for ancestry prediction using RNA-sequencing data [PB2919]
- Cecilia Liu & Minyoung Kim, et al. The assessment of robustness and reproducibility on computational replicates: opportunities and pitfalls [PB2908]
- Yu-Ning Huang, et al. Assessing the completeness of immunogenetics databases across diverse populations [PB3198]
- Ram Ayyala, et al. Rigorous benchmarking of HLA callers for RNA sequencing data

#### Oct 27 (Thursday) 3-4:45PM at Exhibit/Poster Hall, South Building, Level 1:
* Tejasvene Ramesh, et al. Path to independence: Systemic overview of challenges and opportunities of computational data-driven research in biology [PB3233]
* Karishma Chhugani, et al. A trans ancestry genomics based approach to study the interplay between the immune system, infectious type, and HLA type, ancestry and sepsis outcome [PB1253]
* Cynthia Ronkowski, et al. Cultivating a data-driven computational culture within biomedical institutions by empowering graduate students with code-based data science skills [PB2157]
* Varuni Sarwal, SVPred: An integrated framework for Structural Variant Discovery [Board No. PB3156]

{% include figure.html image="images/blog/logo_small.png" %}

