---
title: "Mangul Lab Presents at 8th Annual Conference of the Metagenomics and Metadesign of Subways and Urban Biomes (MetaSUB) International Consortium"

author: Justin Su
member-page: su-justin.html

image: images/blog/

---
### Mangul Lab Presents at 8th Annual Conference of the Metagenomics and Metadesign of Subways and Urban Biomes (MetaSUB) International Consortium

<p style="text-align: center;">
On August 14, Justin presented a talk at the 8th Annual Conference of the Metagenomics and 
Metadesign of Subways and Urban Biomes (MetaSUB) International Consortium in Tokyo, Japan. 
</p>

---

  
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center; align-items: center; gap: 20px; margin: 20px 0;">
  <div style="height: 200px; display: flex; align-items: center;">
    {% include figure.html image="images/blog/metasub_2024_image_1.png" %}
  </div>
  <div style="height: 200px; display: flex; align-items: center;">
    {% include figure.html image="images/blog/metasub_2024_image_2.jpg" %}
  </div>
</div>


  

---
---

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center; align-items: center; gap: 20px; margin: 40px 0;">
  <div style="height: 200px; display: flex; align-items: center;">
    {% include figure.html image="images/blog/metasub_2024_image_1.png" %}
  </div>
  <div style="height: 200px; display: flex; align-items: center;">
    {% include figure.html image="images/blog/metasub_2024_image_2.jpg" %}
  </div>
</div>

---

<p style="text-align: center;">
Nitesh Kumar Sharma, Mohammed Alser, and Karishma Chhugani also showcased a digital poster (Poster 8, Page 13) to ignite 
scientific discussions at the conference! The Mangul Lab was happy to engage with the scientific consortium of 
metagenomics experts in Tokyo to advance global surveillance of microbes in urban biomes. 
</p>

---

<p style="text-align: center;">
This year's conference was held from August 12 to 15 at Tokyo’s Miraikan - Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation. 
It was organized by a team from the Weill Cornell Medicine, Keio University, and the MetaSUB International Consortium. 
The consortium is a novel, interdisciplinary initiative made up of experts across many fields, including genomics, 
data analysis, engineering, public health, and design, to create geospatial metagenomic and forensic genetic maps, 
identify and track antimicrobial resistance markers (AMRs) in the urban built environment, and identify novel biosynthetic 
gene clusters (BCGs) for drug discovery. As a part of MetaSUB projects, the Mangul Lab leads the Global City Sampling 
Day for the City of Los Angeles. Starting Summer 2025, Justin will be leading teams within Los Angeles for this 
international sampling effort. 
</p>

---

<p style="text-align: center;">
Justin and the Mangul Lab thank the organizers, especially the organizing leads Dr. Christopher Mason, 
Dr. Haruo Suzuki, Krista Ryon, and Jackie Proszynski. We look forward to a productive and collaborative 
year with MetaSUB International Consortium, and cannot wait for next year’s conference to present our latest research findings. 
</p>

---

{% include figure.html image="images/blog/metasub_2024_image_3.jpg" %}

<p style="text-align: center;">
Photo Credits: John Kowitz (@j.kowitz)
</p>





