---
title: "Mangul Lab Presents at Microbes in Wastewater 2024"

author: Justin Su
member-page: su-justin.html

image: images/blog/

---
### Mangul Lab Presents at Microbes in Wastewater 2024

On January 18 and 19, [Justin](https://mangul-lab-usc.github.io/members/xu-henry.html) attended the [Microbes in Wastewater: Molecular Approaches in Pathogen & Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Surveillance](https://www.wastewateramr2024.com/) at The Ranch at Laguna Beach. As the first of its kind in Southern California, this two-day symposium was designed to explore the latest advancements in AMR surveillance, pathogen surveillance, advanced molecular methods, and data analysis and bioinformatics tools. 

Justin along with [Dr. Serghei Mangul](https://mangul-lab-usc.github.io/members/serghei-mangul.html) had the opportunity to present posters titled A Rigorous Benchmarking of Methods for SARS-CoV-2 Lineage Abundance Estimation in Wastewater, and SARS-CoV-2 Wastewater Genomic Surveillance: Approaches, Challenges, and Opportunities. 

{% include figure.html image="images/blog/Mangul-Lab-Presents-at-Microbes-in-Wastewater-2024.jpg" %}

We met and heard from national experts, and received valuable feedback on our ongoing research progress from the friendly community. Considering Justin has recently entered the field of wastewater-based genomic surveillance and metagenomics, he was truly inspired by the keynote talks by Dr. Rita Colwell and Dr. Amy Pruden, and was empowered to engage and learn with the forward-thinking community throughout every talk and panel discussion. Additionally, the Mangul and Smith Labs of USC finally met in-person!
